This is a bag and a bottle of freeze-dried urine,
and the US government sells it for $ 983
and shipping costs.
That might be the strangest sentence I ever started a video with,
but it is true.
What is even more weird: that is a pretty reasonable price.
These are two of the more than 1,000 standard reference materials
which are stored here at the National Institute for Standards and Technology.
Here at NIST, we make Standard Reference Materials
or short-term SRMs.
SRMs are super-characterized materials that our customers use
to be sure that the measurements of their materials and processes
accurate and reliable.
If a customer buys one of our SRMs,
they get a unit of the material and an analysis certificate.
Each property, whether it is the chemical composition
whether the physical characteristics of the material are,
is a certified property
and is measured extremely carefully.
The analysis certificate is just as important as the material itself.
Without the certificate and all information contained therein,
is the SRM just a bottle of stuff.
We have a variety of nutrients in our SRM catalog,
such as this pureed spinach.
If you puree the spinach, it is nice and homogeneous.
A little above, is exactly the same as a bit of soil.
We also have our infamous household crap,
from a wastewater treatment plant,
that is dreamed and grinded to this beautiful fine powder.
We take this material;
we set out which poisonous elements are in it;
that is what it is used for.
We also have microscope slides with space pellets between them.
They are polystyrene granules of 10 micrometres,
that have been formed in weightlessness on the Space Shuttle.
Some sensitive materials must be stored under cryogenic conditions.
We have peanut butter, in a glass jar.
Oh, it's cracking.
Then we have whale bacon, organic material in whale bacon.
This is whale bacon from a stranded whale.
It is used to measure biological pollution in the environment
and whales are at the top of the food chain.
Each of these reference materials must be exactly the same,
far behind the comma.
They are used worldwide to calibrate and test equipment.
Now, there are also other locations where reference materials are made.
The difference is that everything in this warehouse has a stamp of approval from the American government.
For the sake of clarity: by far the most reference materials here are pretty boring.
They are intended for industrial processes, so they are made of metal, glass or pure chemical elements.
There are three types of bauxite: from Suriname, Jamaica or the Dominican Republic.
There are even very precise gas mangles available,
just like a number of radioactive substances.
Sometimes it takes years before we have obtained a new material,
what will become an SRM for a number of years.
We buy industrial material directly.
It comes every time we make it from somewhere else,
but we always make it in the same way,
and we characterize it in the same way.
Whether we determine the chemical composition or the physical properties,
we do it with great precision.
There are also SRMs that are used to determine how they break.
We measure again and again, in different ways,
to be sure that what we measure is the true value in that particular material.
The material itself is not exact.
The measurements that characterize it are exact.
If you had not figured it out yet,
the reason that there is freeze-dried urine as reference material,
is because there are people with machines that test urine.
They are investigating the presence of drugs,
so the Institute sells your urine with exact quantities
metabolic products of cannabis or cocaine,
or they examine it for toxins and toxic elements.
So if you have to calibrate such a machine,
to make sure that the result is correct,
then the people here are the people you have to have.
Thanks to everyone here at the National Institute for Standards and Technology.
See the description below for more information about Standard Reference Materials
and about their work.